## All Things Pass
*06/05/24*

*I'm currently 30,000ft above the northern ice sheets of Canada -- the
plane seemed to avoid Russian airspace entirely, not just on the Ukraine
front. I am approximately 9 hours into a 14 hour flight. The disease has
started to spread to my kidneys. I am starting to crave human flesh.*
*ZAAAAaaaaa...*

No, but being so long into such a long flight is what inspired the theme
of my entry. It's more just a general topic, I don't know where it will
go. I started this thinking as a kid for certain situations -- the core
idea is 'if you just exist for X amount of time, the problem will go
away'. My mum was often late to pick me up from school (she was busy
picking up 6 other kids from school and I was last) so it came from
dealing with the boredom. Sometimes I'd tell myself 'she has died' and
then I'd tear up, just as a way to deal with boredom. I wouldn't feel
overly distraught and I knew it was extremely unlikely. It was just a
way to pass the time. Almost like an acting experience. Kids do whacky
things. Anyway, back on topic, another phrase for this temporal passive
problem solving is 'All Things Must Pass'. Thanks George :D! [George
Harrison - All Things Must Pass (2020 Mix /
Audio)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QWV4pFV5nX4&ab_channel=GeorgeHarrisonVEVO)

I think about this a lot for long journeys, or being hungover. If you
can just exist in a space for a (relatively short) amount of time, then
the problem goes away :). Thinking now, I actually apply this to
emotional issues too. This sounds unhealthy, so let me explain.

My process to overcoming hardship, or I guess you could say my process
to processing is the following, *(also it's not like I consciously do
this step by step, so I may have missed some stuff)*:

1.  The thing happens, you have a strong emotional reaction

2.  You feel that immediately in the moment.

3.  A bit of time goes by and you still feel the same way, but you are aware of it.

4.  You still feel the same way, but you understand possible reasons why.

5.  You still feel the same way, but you are satisfied with a couple explanations you've come up with. An explanation can be a **weak explanation** (ie 'some fundamental thing about me is built this way') or a **strong explanation** (ie 'this is directly linked to previous interactions' or 'this is just a bad situation and anyone else would feel the same').

6.  You still feel the same way, but can now manage the causes and your feelings better.

7.  Over time the feeling weakens, largely thanks to the intellectual understanding established in Step 5 and 6, and also emotional distance from the situation.

Step 7 here is the 'just wait it out baby' phase of emotional
processing.

God thinking now, and I hadn't EVER thought about this before, why don't
we sit down to process positive emotions? Should we? Would that be
healthier, like is it recommended? Have you guys heard of that? I'd
google it... but like I said, I am 30,000ft in the air - and also
turning into a zombie :D (this is a bit about horror video game lore
dump notes)

But yeah on the whole, 'just exist' isn't a bad strategy for a lot of
situations. More of a coping mechanism than strategy though.

So...'just exist' isn't a bad coping mechanism for a lot of situations.
As long as you have done the emotional / intellectual work beforehand
(for boring flights there is very little required...), it doesn't seem
harmful to me. Whatever gets you through the day -- and look, even that
phrase has the same sentiment; just gotta get through it.

Also don't forget, some situations do just straight up require emotional
distance, and sometimes the only way to get that is with time.

Gosh I want to be off this flight. My eggs lake (legs ache).
