## Bouts of Sadness with Unknown Causes
*21/01/24*

I'm in a low mood right now, not generally, just at this specific
moment. I also have no idea what to write apart from going on a
meta-cognitive ramble about this headspace I sometimes find myself in.

Generally, I feel sad, a bit 'sad drunk' sad. There's some emptiness in
there, and I feel like if I felt this way for long enough I'd break down
and cry. That does happen sometimes. It's the kind of feeling that makes
you want to listen to the piano part \[1:00\] in [Pink
Moon](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZgHdUeMHTwc&t=60s&ab_channel=NickDrake-Topic)
by Nick Drake and look at the night sky.

It's hard to say if this specific feeling is just part of the human
experience, or is 'unique to me' (in quotes because there are 8.1
billion people in the world). My guess is most people have felt this way
before. These *bouts of sadness with unknown causes* **(BSUC)** come
about a couple times a month, and vary in length (from hours to days). I
think they indicate my needs not being met in some way.

Maybe it\'s 'a habit' I picked up from childhood? I remember I used to
semi-regularly let myself get sad, normally about my divorced parents. I
would kind of enjoy it in a way? Like observing it, and I get this warm
feeling after crying. I think everyone has these biochemical responses
to crying/fear/sadness but the way each individual actually experiences
those hormones/the quantity of hormones varies; it's all on a spectrum.
I find these differences really interesting, as it\'s such a core part
of everyone's human experience.

Back to my current low-ness, as established, there's no particular
obvious cause. It feels like I had a kind of unproductive day? But not
really, I did a food shop, had my hair cut, tidied up a bit (my room and
my hair), and did my laundry. I did fail (not without effort!) to change
my sim/get a refund, so I'm still paying Â£50 a month for that :(. This
month was the first month after leaving my contract, so I'm keen to sort
it out.

The O2 customer service platform is actually really good. Just kidding.
It's one of those shitty chatbots that try to redirect you, drop a
connection, reconnect you, redirect you, fuck you in the ass, reconnect
you, etc. You have to EARN your customer service.

I also called a girl this morning, and was drinking last night. I am
also very far from home.

It's kind of scary (not actively, just intellectually) to have a feeling
of sadness without cause. If there's no justification for it, what's to
stop it increasing? There are few emotions I feel that I can't map to a
cause. In fact, this is the only one that I can think of. I can try
obviously, and can come up with some likely causes, but the ones I
propose don\'t *feel* like a cause. I think it won't increase
indefinitely, because the emotional uncertainty I feel over time (on
average) is decreasing, as I encounter more and more situations that I
know how to handle better from past experience. I'm becoming wise, guys.

That last sentence did trigger a new theory for me though... Maybe the
link between this feeling and emotional uncertainty is causal. So, more
emotional uncertainty, more **BSUC.** The **BSUC** is compensating for
the chemical imbalances introduced by the emotional uncertainty. It's a
regulatory body. Meh, maybe. That's one of my new guesses!

It's comforting to think that I am still young, and my hormones are
probably still developing a bit, so some instability is to be expected,
then again, lots of fully grown adults are a lot less stable than me...
so. I guess that doesn't help.

That's a good point to end on. Hope you enjoyed this little insight into
my mind.

Last thing actually. I've just realised it doesn't typically happen when
I'm with friends, and it only happens when I'm alone, with a girl I have
feelings for, or with my mum. There's some Freudian stuff going on
somewhere I think lol. I have been thinking about this lately, as in,
how our relationships with our parents affect our romantic
relationships.

That's a point to end on too. Not necessarily a good one. But not a bad
one either. Okay! Bye!
