## Climbing Cringe Mountain
*19/11/23*

This Sunday, I was going to write about 'Communication During Sexual
Encounters'. That topic is a bit delicate and heavy, and I'm not in the
mood right now, so FUCK YOU HAHA! Last night, I played in a blues/folk
jam at a bookshop (really fun btw), so I'll go with something lighter
and family-friendly: 'Climbing Cringe Mountain'. This is a concept that
I've felt quite deeply throughout my life and I couldn't hadn't really
thought to verbalise it. Semi-recently, I came across a TikTok that
introduced me to Cringe Mountain.

Sometimes to get to the Land of Cool, you have to climb Cringe Mountain.
I've heard the phrase "Don't be afraid to be seen trying" which conveys
a similar sentiment.

Over the past month or two, I've started going to music sessions and
playing a few songs. Before coming to Tokyo, I played proper live music
twice (as in two songs). The second time was much better than the
first - I think because I had the lyrics out in front of me. That's one
thing that's worth keeping in mind when hiking the mountain... don't
forget your hiking sticks. Having played a few more songs, I\'m
definitely more confident now. By being public with your cringe, 1. You
pick up skills from those around you and 2. You are more eager to learn
by getting immediate feedback (and hopefully support). This makes
getting to the Land of Cool quicker! In the case of music, it forces me
to play different genres and improve my timing. Remember that it can be
good for you to occasionally play in one division higher than you
should. That said, always be humble and self-aware. Don't act like you
are hot shit if you are just shit! Act like a funny poop joke instead.

With this topic, I might be speaking from a place of privilege. I don't
know if it\'s because I'm British or what, but I've always had a very
high cringe tolerance. I embrace it with loving arms. So, a word of
warning: climbing Cringe Mountain might be easier for me than for
others. I've always been eager to try new things. Just an example, I
released my first (singing) EP when I was 17. The singing was rough in
places. I have since deleted it from Spotify (it's still up on YT) but
looking back on it, I still think it\'s really cool I did it and I
wouldn't be where I am today without it. It really is a superpower to
not care when faced with a Cringe Mountain. The more you conquer, the
easier it is when faced with a new one.

Keep in mind, depending on the subject and your skill set, sometimes
Cringe Mountain is just a gentle slope, and at times, you might even
find yourself naturally born into the Land of Cool for certain things.

Remember, people in the Land of Cool will look back at those climbing
with support and enthusiasm - and maybe with a little smirk, it's like
watching a drunk friend pretending to act sober. Also, always be aware
that the first time you think you have made it out of Cringe Mountain,
you likely haven't -- you\'ve probably landed in Dunning Kruger Divot.
That sounds like a Fortnite location.

Learning new skills is so important. I really recommend throwing
yourself into something and giving it some effort (even 50%), knowing
that only good can come from it. Don't be afraid to fail. I used to
think University was unique in the fact that there are so many
opportunities but after moving to Tokyo, I've realised that in most
urban areas there will always be community events and classes to join in
on - you just have to find them.

Next year, I'm going to try improv classes for the following reasons:

1.  I like being silly and witty.

2.  I think it will help with my limited public speaking ability + communication skills.

*Fun fact, [the Dunning-Kruger study doesn't actually reflect what the
conventional understanding of it
is](https://theconversation.com/debunking-the-dunning-kruger-effect-the-least-skilled-people-know-how-much-they-dont-know-but-everyone-thinks-they-are-better-than-average-195527).
Ironic right?*
