## Emily and Jeffrey (Intro)
*14/01/24*

**Chapter 1**

To public knowledge, the most extraordinary thing about the little
coffee shop in Exeter was that it was independently run. The little
coffee shop was owned by a little old woman called Margaret. She was
lovely. As it happened, today it would become noteworthy to two little
humans. One was a fair-haired and fairly lonely woman called Emily. She
was in her late 20s and was a museum curator. The other was Jeffrey who
was also in his late-20s and was a writer, not fair-haired (brown-haired
in fact) but still fairly lonely. Over the last month or so, they
coincidentally visited the coffee shop at the same time, same day, each
week and were becoming decent friends from these regular encounters.
This one was their fifth.

It was 4pm on a Tuesday, the sun was going down and the shop was mostly
empty. Jeffrey approached the glass door and saw Emily already sitting
in the 'command position' at the back left corner of the room, next to
some plants. Emily appreciates a good place to sit, as does Jeffrey.
After the bell-chime of Jeffrey walking in, Emily looked up and saw him.

"You again!" she said while waving endearingly. Unfortunately, her table
only had enough room for one.

"Helloo!" Jeffrey waved back.

"Hiii.\" said Peter.

They didn\'t know Peter. In fact, he would die of a heart attack in a
few days and would never be seen in public again. Jeffrey nodded at him
warmly with a slight smirk and walked towards the counter.

"Caffe latte please." He always wondered if the 'Caffe' in 'Caffe Latte'
was like 'This is a cafe' or like 'Caffeine'. He obviously didn't care
that much, because he never looked it up. He finished ordering and
waited longer than usual; while the barista was human, they were
disappointingly sluggish in character. Jeffrey accepted this as being
good for him, as he'd often find himself frustrated when things were
done inefficiently and figured he needed to practise patience. He
considered it exposure therapy. Jeffrey picked up his beverage and sat
down.

Emily and Jeffrey were now a few tables away from one another, both
doing their respective \'things\', pick any two of: reading, writing,
web-browsing, web-shopping, studying, doodling, curating, kayaking,
masterbating.

15 minutes in, Jeffrey, bored with his 'thing', looked around and then
paused. The shadows were wrong, different from when he came in. It was
slightly too bright. As confused as he was, he found some solace as he
had a question for Emily. He raised his hand, realised that was weird so
looked toward Emily instead, trying to catch her eye. He often tried to
do that, failing more often than not. Emily looked over.

\"Hey, have the windows moved?\" questioned Jeffrey, in a manner more
serious than Emily was used to.

\"?\" said Emily\'s face, sneering playfully. Her smile was brief
though - the windows had not only moved, but changed shape also.

\"Gosh, you are right. They are different."

That\'s when somebody Yelped - as in, submitted a rating on the commonly
used review platform Yelp.com: *Barista could be faster. 3Â½ Stars.*
Peter also had a Yelp account with over 150 reviews on cafes all across
England. He drank a lot of coffee, hence his upcoming heart attack.

Jeffrey went over to Emily's table and then directed her toward a framed
photo from 1970 of Margaret outside the building.

"She's so cute," smiled Emily, before emotionally getting back on track.
They knew Margaret as she'd been giving out donuts the week before.

"She is, I'd date her. But look at the windows."

The windows were the same as they appeared now, and to their eyes, each
about 1 metre out of place and out of shape. It was certainly not like
this when they came in. Their heads began to whir and spin like an
advanced computer solving a complex equation - or like a ceiling fan.
*How did the windows change? And when? Contractors aren't exactly known
for their quick pace...* They were puzzled to say the least. Of course
the answer was very simple: The coffee shop was a nexus between parallel
universes.

**Chapter 2**

Each previous visit to the coffee shop transported them to a different
universe, effectively disappearing them from the one prior to said
visit. This occurrence is hugely inconvenient for the Margarets, the
baristas, Emily's family, Jeffrey's family, and the police forces. It's
a lot of paperwork for all involved, and an emotional ordeal for some.
Eventually though, the case goes cold and everyone moves on.

65 years ago the architect was designing the original building that
would become the coffee shop. Being a bit old and a bit fed up, he
planned to give this building the same treatment he gave all his
buildings, including the window formation. But, in their current
universe (the one with the different windows), the architect's wife
initiated a discussion about their stale sex life and how unfulfilled
she was. Fresh on his mind, he thought it\'d be a nice idea if he mixes
things up for once. He firmly decided to give this building different
windows, and felt a sense of pride - a feeling he hadn't felt in a long
time. Emotionally satisfied, he took no further action on his wife's
words. She of course later divorced him.

In the other universes, she brought it up the following day by which
point the designs were finished, and windows remained untouched. Also,
in this universe (again, the one with the different windows), there was
a reason she brought that discussion up early, and there was a reason
for that reason, and there was a reason for that reason, and so on and
so on. This isn't to say every action causes a massive chain of
reactions. Most go cold pretty quick. If someone blinked at a given time
or 2 seconds later, it wouldn't change anything significant but it might
create a new parallel universe. This means that most universes were
basically the same. Normally there were a couple thousand things
different across earth between parallel universes, and most of these
were meaningless differences but occasionally some stuck out. Here are
the highlights from their previous visits to the coffee shop:

-   Universe of visit 1 (**UV1**): Average umbrella height was 2% taller than other universes.

-   **UV2**: 17 fake monks robbed a bank in cambodia.

-   **UV3**: At 15:34 27th of May 2005, all 6 sided dice rolled in that minute landed on the number four.

-   **UV4**: Tragically for Peter, who died in all universes, humanity had discovered how to stop all heart attacks using a simple pose the day after his death.

