## Generalism and Sharing Art Ramble
*24/03/24*

Not too sure what I wanted to write about today, so it might be a more
classic ramble-style entry. I thought I'd go with the word 'creativity'
and see where that takes me.

I'd say I'm generally a 'generalist' in that I'm decent in lots of
things, but not highly specialised in one particular area. I want to
find a position in life where I can exercise all aspects of myself,
because that's the one thing that really sets me apart from others - my
broad interests and slightly better than average skills in many things.
Unfortunately most roles are highly specialised and my form of
intelligence is one that is stretched across multiple subject areas. I
think a lot of people can relate to this, and it makes for a weird mix
of yes, all those opportunities offered by your interests does make life
more fulfilling, but on the other hand, it can make life more
unfulfilling as you feel limited in lots of circles - like there's so
many aspects of your brain and character that are being underutilised.

Growing up I always looked up to multidisciplinarians, Donald Glover and
Bo Burnham were the main ones off the top of my head. I think
surprisingly, compared with other STEM fields, people in computer
science having an artistic side and extraneous interests are a bit more
common. The correlating factor is wanting to make cool shit, and
probably also a bit of enjoying creative problem solving. Being good at
many things is a great position to be in, I wouldn't want to be any
other way. It allows you to make connections with others fairly easily -
there's something for everyone, and I think it helps with empathy - but
I do wonder if those connections are not whole, so to speak, like 20% of
you matching with 60% of them. And in terms of dating, I do feel like
meeting someone similar to me in this regard is quite low, which is what
it is.

With dating, or just getting close to someone in general, it is really
cool to see other peoples skill sets and interests rub off on you, and
you get to have 1 foot into a subject area you've never considered.
Meeting people and talking about their interests offers so much
opportunity, especially over the course of weeks or months. Sometimes,
though, you ask people 'what do you do for fun?' and they say 'nothing',
and you always have to get them to dig a little deeper. They do do
things, they just don't realise it. I wish people were a bit more in
touch with their hobbies, maybe a bit more impassioned.

Artistic endeavours have definitely helped me get through some tough
times. I have a theory around why writing a song about a sad situation
helps you move on. If you put into words what\'s going on, and you
repeat those words over and over again, your brain/body/nervous system
gets used to the subject matter and the emotions surrounding it.
Basically like a vaccine. Doesn't have to be words, or even art of
course, any repeated exposure to the subject matter in an environment
you are controlling, through any medium will work.

I'm kind of in a rut with songwriting at the moment. I think it\'s
because I'm using Audacity, and my technique is limited, so things can
feel quite formulaic as there's not a lot of room to make mistakes
(there\'s no safety net using basic software) so I try to play it safe.
There have been some fun songs though, that lean into that weird and
wobbliness. It's also kind of annoying, because I know I could add so
much more interesting sounds and actually nice production techniques if
I used FL Studio, and the workflow would be so much faster. It's much
harder to make something that sounds good using Audacity vs FL Studio,
and I don't know how many of the dozen or so songs I've made would be
that accessible, and if I put out an album of them, I feel like people
wouldn't really care. I don't know how proud of them I'd be and how keen
I'd want to share. Some of them are probably quite frankly shit. Maybe
I'll just release a couple that I know sound good-ish. It's kind of
disheartening though. I strongly feel like moving back to FL Studio
would be a good idea. Releasing art is quite a vulnerable thing to do,
especially something as raw as an acoustic singer songwriter thing, even
with as silly as my songs can be. Cringe Mountain, man. Some jimbob
stuff would be nice to make.

Though, speaking of accessibility to my art, I think a 5 part spoken
word album would go down really well, and would be a fairly unique thing
to do.

I think I should talk more about STEM for a change on SJC, and am a bit
worried that 'making art' is becoming too much a part of my identity.
Maybe it\'s a way to distance myself from the perception of people in
computer
science.
There's some shame in there, I think less than there used to be, though,
but something I need to work on. Like a fear of not being accepted, I'll
be dismissed as a nerd.

Eugh. Shame can be so tiring and stupid.

Okay, see ya!
