## Halfway Point in Japan
*17/12/23*

*"Woah, we're halfway there"* - [Mr Bovine
Joni](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rmAP_0VdaXM&ab_channel=pwnage.exe)\
\
I'm now at the middle point of my internship and stay in Japan. Which is
nice, because answering the question "How long are you here for?" to
non-native English speakers typically involves deciphering whether they
mean "How long have you been here?" and "How long have you got left?".
Now I can just say 5 months, and it\'s correct either way - then I mock
them for their accents and spit on their shoes.

My two closest friends here left this weekend, and a bunch of the other
interns too. Its kind of sad, but I'm looking forward to the new
opportunities. Similar to how I felt that coming here the first time.
After moving, I really had space to be my authentic self - I mean, I do
feel like I've always generally acted like my authentic self, my point
is more that I've obviously grown over the years, as one does, but there
was no preconceived notions from ANYONE in Japan I.E real life regarding
what I'm like. As in, having consistent people in your life means they
have an image of you that is somewhat formed by younger versions of you,
versions of you that you have since outgrown. Maybe I'm over-explaining.
I guess the point is that I was being perceived as my latest self. And
now my closest friends are leaving, I can do it all over again! Which I
look forward to. A silver lining.

I miss Britain a lot. Back home I never felt patriotic/national pride at
all, but I think moving abroad changes that. I associate things to do
with England as parts of my 'home' - the music, the pubs, the people the
countryside, the senses of humour and the cultural references. I don't
think I've met a single person in Japan who has seen Peep Show. Sharing
my culture with people here has been fun too though. It is something
larger than just missing my friends (which I do, dearly) or missing my
actual home. So that's been interesting. Not going to vote RefUK anytime
soon though. The pleasure (and privilege?) of living in your own country
is something I definitely took for granted. To be fair, a lot of the
interns were/are/will be from North America, and nothing will make you
feel more British than hanging out with half a dozen Americans. I now
yearn for the cobbled streets where the cars run on Bovril. I got kicked
off my spotify premium family plan too - couldn't verify my location.
Shit sucks!

It is funny that I am seen as exotic here, I've even been told as much,
especially as a Brit. I have mixed feelings about it, but generally
it\'s positive. Second pro is being tall - I wonder if I will feel tall
when I return to England, because I knew I was kinda tall, but never
'felt' tall. The racism does annoy me but I generally put up with it
because I won't live here long-term.

Japan isn't very accepting of foreigners. I think their population is
97% Japanese, and they do get away with a lot of open racism here.
Sometimes even other foreigners will defend it. It's strange. It's even
stranger to actively choose to live here (provided you already live in a
decent country). Also the pay here is way lower, as is the cost of
living - so it kind of keeps people from leaving the county. You'll
never be accepted as Japanese. It's kind of sad. And it's sad for me,
because statistically, the rate of oddball-ness amongst other foreigners
is higher here. To live so far away from home, and in Japan in
particular, there is probably going to be something a bit strange about
you. Same with my work, but 10x that, imagine wanting to live in Japan
AND being a Computer Science student AND being American. Not a great
selection criteria but I think I hit on that last week...

I've met some other chill peeps though, and it is mostly other
foreigners that I could hit up or see on a night out and have a good
time. My apartment is nice too, it\'s probably about 50/50 foreigner to
Japanese. Sometimes it is tough hanging out with people (such as last
night, we had an apartment Christmas dinner) and everyone is speaking
Japanese. It's something everyone can relate to, surrounded by so many
people but it feels like you're not speaking the same language (just in
this case, it is literal lol). I think I felt that growing up sometimes,
so to use an inside joke: "It made me feel like a kid again". Everyone
here is a bit older, like mid twenties to mid 40s, and I'm definitely on
the younger side, although I don't look it. It works out because the
middle aged people here look younger lol. We can meet in the middle.

Not much else I want to talk about, I was a bit low energy this time
round. Anyway, I want to say I love the film Lost in Translation. Please
watch! ✌️
