## Health and Death (Dealth?)
*25/02/24*

It's a rainy Sunday morning and my penis is inflamed, once again. Not an
STI, just an easily triggerable yeast overgrowth (mmmmm), of which this
is probably the 5-6th time I've experienced it, so I'm not too worried.
It is however the first time I've experienced it in a long time
(probably about a year) and that's because washing my penis after sex
stops it from occurring, and unfortunately, after a long *romp in the
hay*, I forgot to do this. I tried picking up cream today, but no
dice---I need to go back tomorrow.

Recently I've been thinking about health and its importance. There comes
a time in everyone's life where they no longer feel invincible. A friend
once told me I was an agile young man, which I agree, I was, but now I'm
no longer able to launch my body around like a toy. Of course you are
aware of this, but you don't internalise it and/or overcome it until
later. This happened for me when I tore my ACL:

*90th minute,*

*1-0 up,*

*A through ball played,*

*I chase it,*

*Keeper collects,*

*I jump over the keeper,*

*I land,*

*I---*

***POP***

*"GET THE FUCK UP!" --- Louis Ross, a goon*

After that, months of immense pain followed, followed by years of
occasional sharp or shooting pain, now I mostly get dull knees every now
and then, which is very manageable. I can't competitively play sport
ever. *Unleth we are talking E-Thporths.* The real awakening came from
reading about the arthritis that follows in later life. I actually
already occasionally get hot fingers (my mum had arthritis at a young
age too). I think most people don't really have an intellectual
understanding of illness? I definitely didn't used to. Technical terms
and potential illnesses used to invoke a strong emotional, and quite
frankly anxious, response in me. I think this reaction is bad and
contributes to a lot of stigma around illness. I feel this really
strongly with STIs, like I remember having a conversation with a friend
that he wouldn't use the same (washed) cutlery as me if I had HIV, even
though there is medication that entirely blocks the transmission of it,
let alone it only being transmissible by blood/sex. Really an STI should
be seen just as intellectually the same as any other sickness.

Nowadays my nerdy side comes out when researching illnesses and talking
to doctors and I actually genuinely enjoy confronting my body head on. I
see my body as a fleshy tamagotchi. Maybe more like an amazing resource
I want to keep in good condition. I think it\'s a healthy approach.

Between late November and mid January I had stomach issues after eating
certain foods, although I've always occasionally had heartburn. I've now
deduced it was probably some form of excess acid, probably a thing
called 'alcoholic gastritis' where alcohol/acid slowly wears down the
stomach lining (which protects you from the acid) and therefore causes
inflammation. Also recently, I drank wayyy too much on an empty stomach,
and after puking twice, the symptoms came back (and have since
subsided). Changing diet helped with the original issue, and I think my
body just needed some time to repair itself. Magic things really! They
also did blood tests, I have slightly (by 0.1) high calcium, and also
just over the cusp of elevated blood pressure. Improving my diet but I
also need to exercise more.

Anyway, I've been more conscious about my health and what I consume, and
how all our bodies are heading toward decay. Also scared of overworking
my joints. Also I really like being in my 20s, and one day that will
end. Time goes so fast. I'm starting to feel a *little* bit old, instead
of not at all. I used to accept that I was going to die, but I don't
think I've totally accepted that my body will decay while I'm using it.
Bodies so easily betray themselves. People randomly get allergies at age
37. People randomly fall over causing irreversible brain damage. It's
all so delicate, and medicine is so complex. **A lot of things aren't
curable**. I think once you feel betrayed by your body, you will start
to accept chronic illness, ageing, and death.

So, as an ending, cherish what you have now, be thankful for your sight,
the working parts of you, and empathise with the people living in flawed
bodies, even if for no other reason than one day, maybe tomorrow, that
**will** be you.

*Okay quick ramble RE the 'tamagotchi' comment. Recently I've realised
that I might actually see a lot of the world through anthropomorphised
relationships (kind of). Even when I'm studying computer science, I
characterise different parts and functions as things doing things with
intent, making decisions, saying things to one another. Likewise, I
think I have a pseudo-interpersonal relationship with my body. Or like
Exeter, or Student Cardens, I see them as these giant entities that
communicate through various means. Maybe everyone does this, not sure. I
think language is limiting what I'm getting at here.* *I think the best
way to articulate it would be that if I did intense psychedelics, I
wouldn't be surprised if these 'systems/processes' started taking human
form and communicating as a person. Maybe with this knowledge, I can
harness it for personal gain---improve studying technique?*
