## James' 21st Birthday
*13/02/24*

On Sunday (writing on Tuesday), I had my 21st birthday in Japan! Here's
an outline of my B-day weekend.

**Friday**

I had a birthday party, shared between those living at my apartment
whose birthdays are in January and February---one sixth of the 130
residents. Some folks from work came, mainly interns and a couple
full-timers! Melih was there too, pointing his name out because we have
a platonic affinity toward one another and I wish to remember him
whenever I re-read this. They got me some muffins!

The party itself was **chillungus**, not super busy to begin with. At
around 9:30 we went to **USA LIVE PUB**, a small venue (just shy of a
dozen people) near where I live, where it was 'Beatles Night'. There's a
stage and some super talented middle-aged folks turn up there. We
listened and had a great time! I played a few songs (Norwegian Wood,
Yellow Submarine, Something), and others in our group sang.

We then returned to the party which had picked up a bit more, and
mingled with the other guests.

**Saturday.**

I went to a gig! I saw 'No Buses', a Japanese indie-rock band called 'No Buses' - I've been
following them since 2019 (5 years ago now!). They were really really good,
and played some of their old classics I loved. Very intense noisy music
at times, causing the hairs on my hairy arms to stand up. I think it
surprised some of the audience---it was technically an all-ages event,
and I definitely saw some shocked faces. The first half was definitely a
'showy-show', then it became a bit more accessible. They surprised the
lead singer with their old drummer too which was sweet!

Venue had about 1000 people and we weedled our way to the middle.
Japanese crowds are very tame, there was very little movement, only some
head nodding, apart from a few short Japanese women who had the
space/energy to bounce around a bit inoffensively. Generally though, the
lack of movement did detract away from the energy---it was more like
they were watching a performance rather than experiencing the music.
Also very few phones filming which was nice, as was the ever-present
height deficiency in the crowd. Those behind us probably hated our
freakish vertical overabundance.

I went with a friend of a friend (due to happenstance). I didn't
actively like him, he was a bit negative, under-appreciative,
self-oriented, but he did like the concert itself. He wasn't a TOTAL
drag, I just wished I went with someone else haha. We still had a good
time!

**Sunday.**

My birthday birthday... I thought I'd embrace the full introspective,
lonely, abroad birthday. I went to Enoshima Island to see the sea. I
originally wanted to go for a bike ride or boat or something, but bailed
on that once I got there. It was national foundation day so it was super
busy.

The journey took about 1.5 hours, trains mostly. I arrived and went
toward the seafront, and then toward a massive bridge, full of people
that connected the mainland to the island. I crossed it (duh) and then
found myself being funnelled toward a shrine with a little buddha. I
looked around some of the tourist shops on the way (the Japanese LOVE
'omiyage', which are gifts they get whenever they visit somewhere
else---mostly tat in my opinion). I then made my way up and over the
island, passing more little shops on the way. I bought a CRAP coconut
bowl ukulele for 3000 yen (16 pounds ish). It sounded like ass, and the
tuning pegs don't work. It's a kids toy. I passed an eat-in space that
was advertised as "EAT IN SPACE".

I made my way toward the cave area of the island, and nearby there was a
large open rock-space near the coast, the type of place you go crabbing.
I sat there, tried my ukulele and did what I could with it which was
fun. I then packed up, looked at the outside of the cave, saw the
massive queue, figured it wasn't worth it.

I then looked up some second hand shops, passed a British second hand
shop, and spoke to the Japanese owner about England and The Beatles.
After that I found this MASSIVE second hand store (American-sized) on
Google Maps, and made my way over there via bus. I bought a jumper, a
tambourine, a chromatic tuner, and a new (nylon string!) guitar! Was
very pleased. I then played it along the warehouse district as I walked
back toward the station, which took about 20 minutes.

On arriving home, I made dinner and ate one of the muffins. Then I
phoned my parents, and also a pretty girl I've been seeing lately.

It was a very nice weekend!
