## Socialising II
*08/04/24*

I watched Groundhog Day last night, and I've started thinking about
small talk and making friends. I think when you use to live in a
relatively small town, you'd see the same people every day. Small talk
could easily evolve into a personal relationship with someone. Nowadays
I think we are much more disconnected, and the rewards of small talk
aren't as frequent. You more than likely won't see the same person twice
or enough times for the effects of small talk to compound into a
meaningful relationship. It's also that we encounter way more people.
This probably causes that countryside/city divide in sociability. I live
in an apartment of 130+ people alone, and work in an office of 100+
people. Making small talk, just isn't worth it most of the time.

Say you need 20 points of small talk to create a personal relationship
with someone, and you have 3 points of small talk per day. Now, on any
given day you have the opportunity to small talk with a random selection
of 5 people from a group of 100. This can really make small talk not
feel worth it. If it were a group of 20 people, it would probably feel
more worth it.

Now there is a caveat to this: people you happen to see regularly. This
can be because you get lunch together, or go to the same event or bar
regularly or work closely. This also has an element of randomness. Maybe
it\'s overly reductive to say, but to what extent can you really pick
your friends? In computer science I'll take what I can get.

It takes a lot for me to feel like friends with someone, and to be
honest, I really dislike the small talk, occasional run-ins stage of
friendship. Not because I dislike getting to know someone (I really
enjoy that!). I think real potential-friends need consistent
interaction.

I've been on a few 'friend dates' (doing something fun with an
acquaintance) here. I think I need to remind myself of that being an
option. When I first moved to Japan I did that a lot more. With interns
it\'s easy, but otherwise I think the dynamic has to develop a little
bit before you go for the friend date move. And now that I know I'm
leaving so soon, I just can't be fucked.

It's also a vulnerable thing to do. Like, yeah, I'm lonely :333 can we
hangout :3333! I didn't feel this shame when I first moved because it\'s
expected to be lonely. Maybe the move (this is more applicable back
home) is to invite a newish friend and their friend group to whatever
you and your friend group are doing, rather than asking a single person
to join your group or vice versa.

Not having a friend group is tough. I felt that a lot throughout
secondary school, and I feel it in Japan. It makes things difficult and
lonely. I think I also have a high bar for someone I'd want to be
friends with. There have been opportunities to infiltrate groups but I
always look at the people and tell myself this is not what I want. Maybe
I have to lower my bar a bit, for groups that is. Not sure.

Making friends is just another cringe mountain to climb.

Another interesting thing is that a part of me is scared my friend group
back home realised they prefer it without me. I'm also worried they feel
slighted by me moving to another country for 9 months, plus an extra 3,
and so have dismissed me from their minds. This obviously isn't exactly
rational and stems from my childhood. I do think about them often, but
they're not big texters and plus with the timezone we haven't interacted
much - so I'm worried I've faded from their minds all the while they are
at the front and foremost of mine. I think this is a bit more rational,
and while mendable, still a bit scary to think about.

The closest relationships I've had in Japan are romantic ones. Romantic ones aren't great because when they end it\'s rare to
continue that interpersonal relationship, which just leads to
loneliness. One in particular and I still text and talk which is nice but took a
while, plus she has left now.

I'm going on a date with a hot model today! She is
mid-traditionalist in terms of gender roles which is interesting.
Sometimes I feel like - *I'm Louis Theroux, I'm Louis Theroux.*
Performing manhood can be so silly and I say this to her, but I'm kind
of enjoying (maybe at times loathing) the dynamic where I'm more
equality minded and she is less so. It's also one of those things when
someone is into you DESPITE of something - I love that shit, one of my
favourite flirting dynamics. It's a good sign that shes into me. It's
just casual though, so I don't expect any heart break or blossoming
romance here. I don't want my wallet to be overly abused though.
