## Memories and Perception of Time
*16/04/24*

When I was a young teenager I came up with a theory, one which probably
already exists and has an academic name. Hold on, let me see if ChatGPT
can find the name... Okay no couldn't find much. It involves lots of
theories by the looks of things, but I'm not a psychologist. Here's the
theory.

Certain memories are kept because they are emblematic of experiences
that shaped your current identity. Kinda like how dreams are models for your subconcious. I think this is the case for some of
my memories for sure - they aren't necessarily anything crazy or strong,
it\'s just that they perfectly model a recurring dynamic that you
had/have in your life. I mean, it might just be that the things that
shape you typically happen kind of often, so you are bound to have a
memory (i.e there\'s a 1 in 100 chance you will remember something, and
it happens a two hundred times, you'll probably remember one of the
occurrences and call it 'emblematic').

I have a pretty hazy memory, I reckon there are entire years I have no
memories from. Kind of strange.

Time is moving so quickly these days. I am finishing my internship in
Japan on Thursday (2 days from the time of writing). I remember being 16
or so, and being in awe of the fact that weeks flew by, but now it\'s
months. One day it will be years. Crazy to think how long half terms
felt (these were one week long) back in the day. It's also a mind fuck,
because it feels like I've been in this state forever. It's an
interesting oxymoronic effect: once a period of your life becomes
routine, it feels like it's always been this way but at the same time,
time moves much quicker. And then that period is over, and everything
feels new and slow again. That cycle is kind of beautiful and poetic
really, then again, most things that are cyclical are. I don't really
know why - maybe it\'s just really relatable to the human condition so
we appreciate that.

Memories are really strange. I've remembered a few forgotten memories
recently, and a part of me feels like its my subconscious talking to me,
telling me to remember these things - again with an 'emblematic'
message. Sort of like how dreams work. Or maybe its the way my brain is
forming as I age, and neural pathways + memory retrieval systems are
shifting around a bit. Freaky.

Deja vu is another one. When I get it, I often feel it as a 'I felt this
before' AND a 'I told someone about this experience'. If I recall
correctly, deja vu is when your brain tries to put what\'s happening
into short term memory, but instead retrieves it from long term memory,
as it\'s happening. So somewhere in that, my long term memory retrieval
is linked to telling stories about things that happen. Maybe my
verbalising memories pathway isn't connected properly - I mean, I do
struggle with verbalising memories / telling stories... Another thought
to stash away in the things that may or may not be, and probably are not
be.

Funnily enough this just showed up in my recommended.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ktkjUjcZid0&ab_channel=Vsauce

There's a theory that humans swapped short term memory for language as
we deviated from our last common ancestor with chimps. Maybe its todo
with that.

I need to make progress on getting rid of my stuff, I'll be home in
under three weeks. See ya
