## Passion, Procrastination, and Discipline
*12/11/23*

In my life, I consider myself very lucky. Excluding my race, gender,
nationality, entire socio-economic background, and a dozen other things,
I'm lucky because I'm a naturally driven individual. This is good
because I am not well disciplined, at least in certain scenarios.

I'm applying to internships at the moment and there are/will be coding
interview questions. So, I was studying 'Leetcode', a site that
facilitates learning these styles of questions, after work every day for
about a week or so. My feed was showing clips from Leetcode, and I had a
genuine interest in it... and then I just stopped. I'm not sure why. I
still want to work for Spotify.

I think the issue lies in not having clear goals. When it's exam season,
I am a very disciplined individual. I will spend 6 hours a day studying,
no problem, and that's because I know, at the end of things, there will
be a clear numeric value on my performance. Most things in life don't
have that, and that's why it\'s hard to be disciplined.

I might be echoing very basic self-help I've heard throughout my life,
but thinking now, the answer probably lies somewhere in:

1.  Have a clear goal.
2.  Have clear metrics on progress.
3.  Be consistent.

Starting the Sunday Journal Club is another solution to this. I wanted a
means to practice writing, but I know myself well enough that in order
to see it through, I must create a whole framework that makes it more
appealing. This is the same reason I deliberately guide my feed toward
certain topics (like Leetcode) when I want to pursue something. It's
like weaponising your identity for productivity's sake. Which I think is
an interesting tactic, and I see it A LOT in entrepreneurial types,
which can be very funny, yet tragic, at times.

I can rationalize putting things off pretty easily. My core logic is
"I'll do this when I am more in the mood to do this," i.e., waiting for
passion to arrive. And normally it does! I'll do the washing up once I'm
like, "Hey, I want to do the washing up." But the rest of the time, I'm
in this state where I'm sat in my room, and the washing\'s not done.
Yes, this is a metaphor.

In fact, I don't have a good argument against waiting to do something
until you\'re in the mood for it (or are driven to do it by
circumstance). I guess one would be that over a longer period of time,
your life will be better if you tackle things earlier? Not sold on this
entirely yet, mainly because I just thought of it and haven't thought it
through... Ironically, the thing about relying on passion, is you don't
really have a desire*, or the passion*, to dismantle that mechanism.

The biggest takeaway for me is that I should apply more metrics to my
life and work, no matter what my desire is to do so.
