## People in Computer Science
*10/12/23*

I want to write (and complain) about the types of people that are in
computer science... I'll try not to sound like a twat. Generally, I am a
very accepting person. It's just, at times, difficult to connect with
certain types for various reasons.

Everyday, I walk through the park to get to work. At the furthest end, I
see my office building one of the larger ones in the area. It's a big
blue walkie-talkie. Once there, I take the elevator up to the 13th
floor, turn a corner, and open the main door of our office. There,
everytime, without fail, the navigation team are sat down in front of
the window, blinds SHUT. They are the only ones who have desks facing
the window. The only saving grace of our grey, sterile office IS the
view. Who does that? Why? My friend said it used to make him feel
disgusted every time he saw that. Like a visceral, irrational anger of
"what the fuck is wrong with you!?" I feel a bit similar.

In STEM, it feels like a lot of people don't have much taste - again not
trying to sound like a twat. Computer science has a higher proportion of
people that are happy to stay indoors, curtains drawn, all day, than
everyday life. When surrounded by these types of people, sometimes you
can make a suggestion and people don't just 'get it' and their reactions
might be dismissive or straight up rude.

The lack of people skills and empathy can be pretty bad. These people
have spent (and continue to spend) a lot of time on the computer. It's
also interesting when you consider that the rates of autism are a lot
higher in CompSci than most fields, and that *typically* coincides with
a lower desire to be social. But with that to one side, if someone has
clunky or awkward social skills I don't mind too much and I really do my
best to make people feel comfortable and find common ground. On a larger
scale, it is frustrating when a lot of the people you meet require
active cerebral effort to hang out with because, simply put, they aren't
your kind of people.

A more ugly side of things is that because of these bad social skills,
some may have been victims of bullying, or generally have low self
esteem. This can then manifest in ugly ways. Some of these people are
intelligent, and the only win they can get in life (as they see
it\*\*\*) is by being patronising about software engineering. Which is
insane because to most people, constantly trying to prove your smart at
computer science is like constantly showing off your comic book
collection. Stack Overflow (a site where people ask for help with
coding) is famous for having dick-ish answers. It's even worse when
these people aren't actually that smart. I've seen people be confidently
wrong so many times, and unwilling to admit their mistakes.

Also, so many men and **so many men that have never interacted with a
woman before**. Like holy shit, why are you being sexist? Why are you
talking like it\'s cool to get laid or talk to girls? It seems so
performative and it's almost like they know it\'s bad. Of course I know
why. Due to their bad social skills, they haven't been in conventional
male friendship groups, so their understanding of how to bond with other
men comes entirely from TV and middle aged men you find on birthday
cards. I mean, this is a generalisation but its generally true - I guess
that\'s the point of a generalisation. It does feel uniquely slimy when
compared to the men who actually act that way (although I guess it is
all an act at the end of the day). I say it its uniquely slimy because:

1.  Unfortunately for these men, it takes confidence to be convincingly sexist.

2.  Most people in computer science are generally intelligent, and generally 
intelligent (young) people know that sexism is wrong, or at least know it is 
SEEN as wrong in society.

I've joked to my friend before that I'm in favour of affirmative action
in tech because HOLY SHIT I WILL GO INSANE IF THERE AREN'T MORE WOMEN IN
MY LIFE. The real argument in favour of it is that we want people to
have all their potential career options at their disposal but of course
affirmative action can be an awkward balancing act in its own right.
Anyway, I think it would take a lot of perseverance to be a woman in a
CompSci classroom for 4 years. Thanks tech women.

Sometimes I wonder if I'd be happier if I were in a more creative field.
I am very interested in the intersection of art and comp sci. Might do a
MA in Human Computer Interaction...
