## Peforming Manhood
*03/12/23*

It is 23:26 Sunday. Once again cutting it fine for Sunday Journal Club.
I still have my laundry to unpack and bedsheet to lay before bed time,
so might even cut this short.

Not too sure what I want to talk about. Maybe my romantic endeavours? I
feel like over my whole young adult life (that's two whole years), I
feel like I've had a dozen (its probably closer to 5) moments of
connection that last between a couple weeks and months. There can be
very high compatibility matches, but certain circumstances or baggage
prevent things from going further. I'm getting a bit fed up of this...

I do feel like I'm growing with these experiences though. I was seeing
someone on and off for about a month here in Japan, and it was really
the first time I've felt truly seen in the same way I see myself - in a
romantic setting that is. No performance of manhood, and getting
appreciation for the things I internally appreciate about myself. It was
super validating. Generally feeling more secure with myself and my needs
these days.

My sexual communciation has gotten a lot better recently too. I think it
started good, got worse, and now is in a really good spot. I think I had
a lot of baggage previously in the way in which I'd communicate during
sex, and I didn't really know what my needs were. I could get really
easily in my own head (p0rn doesnt help with this obviously... its like
practicing being an observer for your sexual encounters... also
desensitising your dick!). Anyway yeah, I could easily get stuck in my
own head observing whats happening, not being in the moment. And I've
realised its because I didn't feel comfortable because I need certain
signals/conditions to feel so.

When I was in this state of discomfort, it could naturally lead to a
place where I felt like I was simply 'performing' and wasn't present at
all - also felt like I was 'performing manhood'. This would lead to
frustration of feeling this way too, and ultimately would end the sexual
encounter early. Over a long period of time, this bottled up confusion
led to me being insecure and communicating less. When a girl would ask
"what do you like" I would freeze up. I'd say like "This is good!",
internally id think, as silly as it is "am I doing something wrong?".
Anyway yes this all culminated in a specific night where these issues
were present, and I had to stop. I went to the toilet because it
genuinely brought me to tears. The girl was really good and empathetic
about everything. She was/is very smart and had a good understanding of
gender and gender dynamics, so talking it through with her, and doing
some introspection really allowed me to unpack some of the issues around
sex I had. I am forever grateful for her, and shes forever shaped future
encounters for the better. Same girl that 'saw me for me'! Go her. I
really recommend anyone to encourage communication in sex (but start
communicating needs before sex) as it is supa intimate and supa
vulnerable. It leads to a more enjoyable experience for all. Recently I
was with a girl who was staying over but she wasn't touching my
downstairs area at all? This was throwing me off so i spoke about it (in
a delicate way!) with her and it really improved things. Really
recommend talking, and understanding your own needs - or just listening
to your body and stopping and communicating when you feel uncomfortable,
even if you don't know why\*. *Derp derp eprpedpseokfsopfkio df farts.
farts!*

Anyway speaking of performing manhood, paying on dates is something I've
always struggled with. Happened on my date last night. I went for the
initial pay but still was a bit awkward. Spoke about this after with the
same girl actually and we mostly agreed on things. Anyway, It's always
awkward I feel, for the woman and the man. I think its really archaic
and silly to not split the costs on a first date. Depending on the girl
they'd be more willing to split of course, but it feels tacky to ask So
I want to come up with a system where all parties are comfortable. Here
are some proposals, from POV of MAN (me... im a man!)

1.  Always go for the initial pay:

    a.  Pros: No immediate awkwardness. They can always 'get you back'
        > either on the date or on future dates - this requires date
        > goes well.

    b.  Cons: keyword 'if date goes well'. Goes against my feminist
        > ideals - has its roots in misogyny, kind of archaic: men are
        > no longer soul earners in society, in some cases implied 'you
        > owe me something', although i dont think that applies so much
        > in todays world (typically!). I'm looking for LOVE here not to
        > entertain people that are there out of boredom.

2.  Ask to split:

    a.  Pros: I'd argue its the most feminist approach. Ideally shouldnt
        > have to ask :').. Ideal girl would also disagree with the idea
        > that the men should pay... + If date goes poorly I'm not out
        > of pocket. Some women I've been with appreciate this.

    b.  Cons: Some women I've been with have not appreciated this.
        > Awkward question. Not suave. Failed performance of male
        > ideals. Even if they don't (intelectually) care about male
        > ideals, theres always the emotional side thats ingrained in
        > everyone.

3.  ??? Magic solution.

    a.  Pros: No immediate awkwardness. No obligation. Not out of pocket
        > if things go poorly.

With point 3, might be achievable if we had a world where women and men
truly had equality. In such a world, it would be assumed to be split.
Mmmm feminist utopia baby. Hopefully i can find a stop-gap solution
until that day comes (its probably not possible). Please help a brother
out if you have any ideas.

Okay out of time. Bed time anywhooos. Good nights. Hope you enjoyed the
intimate talks.

Peace and love

Kisses



*As an ammendment (09.06.24), I have recently spending more money buying girls drinks and food on dates.
The reasons for this is that it is a good signaller of how invested you are, and also I think
in the long term its worth the extra investment, and I don't think I'll be doing too poorly for
myself, as a techy guy.*