## Self Confidence
*30/04/24*

How self confident should you be?

I've always kind of wondered this. Like how much should we need external
validation? At the end of day, approval from those around you is an
important part of life. Otherwise bullying wouldn't be a problem. As
social beings, it stops you from straying too far from the pack, and
emotionally keeps you in check. It's clear everyone needs *a bit* of
external validation, and that's a healthy thing. We don't want everyone
to be self-righteous, do we? I just feel like there is no good answer
for this, and everyone's a bit different. There's definitely a socially
acceptable range though, but I think even within that range, people on
opposite ends are non-compatible.

I'm a skinny guy, and as a teenager I was fairly insecure about my body,
like I would avoid wearing T shirts B(. Somewhere along the way I
started to like my body more, and I think seeing people talk about it
like a 'type' on social media actually helped. Which is interesting.
While I've been in Japan, I think I've gone through another growth
stage, mainly fueled by going out lots and chatting to people. I feel
pretty confident in my social abilities, and I really enjoy the
relationships I form with new people - like I am very self confident in
them. It's kinda annoying because those same dynamics don't necessarily
exist with friends I made back when I was less confident, so it feels a
bit off to me.

Also, I'm pretty confident talking to women now. At my company, I have a
reputation of being the guy that is successful with women... I think it
says more about my peers than it does about me though. Cold approaches
are a bit yeesh still, I think they always will be, but if someone is
standing open I'll happily go say hi to them and have a chat, and I
think I give off a pretty good vibe. I think being British helps though,
so it will be interesting what that will be like when I'm back, which
I've touched on before. There is a newish aspect where recently I have
dated / been with a few absolutely gorgeous women. It is crazy
validating, and quite frankly, is still surprising to me. Then again
there are so many factors while abroad in such a big city so the
question is, as I've said before "Can Pilcher do it on a rainy night in
Stoke?" (the UK).

While in Japan I've been pretty into the Beatles and Wings and Paul
McCartney, and weirdly enough it helped seeing *fairly* widespread
agreement of Paul McCartney's overall attractiveness. Anyway, it might
sound silly, but I think I'm cute in the same way Paul McCartney is seen
as cute, and that's upped my confidence much the same way the skinny
thing did back in the day.

Also I identified with Ethan Hawkes character in the Before trilogy,
though he is obviously more suave. I think it\'s good to identify and/or
have role models, especially as a young man. Helps you grow the parts
you like about yourself, and kind of feels like their success is your
success? I guess I initially admired Paul for his musical ability, but
unexpectedly there was a benefit to my self-image. He is also quite
charismatic, but in a different way.

Another one that I feel more embarrassed about saying is Craig Ferguson,
who was a genuinely very witty late night host. I am only embarrassed
because he's like labled 'THE KING OF FLIRTING' and it\'s quite cringe.
But yeah, he's a funny silly guy, and I think his sense of humour is
applicable for me. I watched him A LOT as a young teenager and I
rediscovered him while in Japan. He can come off strong though, it took
a few videos before I got used to it. *[Donald Glover Aka Childish
Gambino - Craig Is His Real Father - 4/5 Visits In Chronological
Order](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zktNvZM7MTA)*

Being a dude it is interesting watching yourself become more appealing
to a wider range of women as you age. That is funny. Or you could do
what **SOMEPEOPLE** do and lie and then it doesn't matter. I suck at
lying though and I don't think it\'s good - which is convenient because
I suck at it.

There is one last thought I had recently in regards to 'talking to
women' which might be beneficial to hear:

*Most women would get sad if no man ever approached them.* I don't know,
that might be helpful to hear. I feel like a lot of the fear is that
women don't want guys to approach - but what women don't want is a guy
that unwantedly lingers, not a guy that says hi. It's not that bad if
you accidentally take a minute of their time. And a minute is a long
time in terms of feeling out if someone wants to keep talking.

Another aspect of self confidence is how a lack of it can manifest. A
CLASSIC thing is the whole anxious vs avoidant relationship styles. I
really like reassurance in relationships, and probably need slightly
more on average, so if (as I have in the past) I date someone who is a
bit more avoidant or defensive about things, then things can get
difficult quite easily. The frustrating part of this is that oftentimes
the avoidant/defensive person is telling themselves they are being
'strong' while the other is being 'weak', when really they are being
just as insecure. I feel like I've had to explain that to avoidant
people a lot. What SUCKS is that I like strong assertive women, and I
think that can be associated with this attachment style, which quite
frankly, I think I am incompatible with.

On the whole though, I'm pretty self confident these days \^-\^ but
there's definitely lots of room to grow, which I think I will, just
maybe in time. Some of the stuff I worry about now, I really don't see
30 year old me worrying about the same kind of stuff. Same way I don't
worry now about the sort of stuff I worried about at age 17.
