## Sick, Canada, Cost of Living, UK Election, The Euros
*18/06/24*

I’m sick. And Tired! And I’m going to watch a film. So what you are going to get here is a 15-20 minute RAW more or less word vomit / stream of consciousness / classic SJC ramble. I think this is the first time I’ve been ill during the Sunday Journal Club… it is also Tuesday evening.

I arrived in Canada about 3 weeks ago, and I have 8-9 weeks to go. Things seem to be much cheaper here than in the UK, bar food. I’m spending $600 CAD on rent (this is about £300) per month. A pint is about $6-7 (£3-3.50). Food is expensive, but even still, my weekly shop is around $70-$80 (you should be able to do the conversion on your own by this point).

I really thought it would be worse than the UK from what I’ve heard, so I was pleasantly surprised. Living abroad for the past year has made me generally always take things that you hear about countries with a grain of salt. Back in Japan (and in Canada) some people expect Brits to have a good understanding of tea, and I had to let them down and say no… we only drink English breakfast tea, none of that green tea nonsense. I worked with Canadians last year and they’d always complain about the cost of living in Canada (bear in mind these were wealthy folks), and on getting here I’m like… wait… it’s better than the UK lol.
	Myths about other countries form very easily, get exaggerated, and can only really be disproven / reigned in after living there for a while rather than with a quick holiday, which is pretty interesting. We aren’t as globalised as I used to think. Makes me feel like an 18th century sailor sometimes, recounting tales of a distant civilisation.

UK elections are soon, can’t wait to participate in democracy guys! The Tories (Conservatives) have been in power for 14 years (2/3s of my life), with 5 prime ministers in that time… I’m excited for a change in government. It really has been scandal after scandal, so I look forward to seeing how Labour will lead. I expect there to be a bit more dignity in the next government. Keir Starmer is growing on me, but yeah, he’s not a great public speaker. He seems like he genuinely cares and is a very rational and pragmatic fella.  I liked how he handled his LBC interview. I only care about the policies (and health of the political system) at the end of the day. With the politics seeming so black and white sometimes it's actually nice to see someone operate in the grey-area from time to time, although this can arguably be seen as weakness and unwilling to commit to a belief. Labour’s main platform at the moment is ‘WE ARE NOT THE CONSERVATIVES’ so they’re playing it very safe. Makes sense though, seeing as it has been 14 years. We will just have to wait until they are in power to see how their government will operate. Which I guess isn’t ideal but hey, it’s politics. I read through their manifesto and it all seems fine. Also, I liked some of the green policies, but I think some of them are ridiculous. Classic.
Also it’s currently the Euros, and England are real contenders this year, although we did scrape through 1-0 in our first group stage game against Serbia. It can get a bit sad watching from outside of the UK :C, especially with no English people around. Should have gone to Germany.

Okay, I'm going to watch The Grand Budapest Hotel. See you!
