## Socialising
*28/01/24*

Recently (over the past year and a half or so) I've become a lot more
extroverted, and less nervous in group situations. In fact, I
specifically remember being 16 and thinking how I tended to only thrive
in one-on-one scenarios, but lately I don't struggle at all (as long as
everyone is speaking English...) and I naturally feel more comfortable
than I did with groups.

I really recommend forcing yourself to act invested, even if you don't
initially feel invested. Also, if you are missing context on what people
are talking about, ask for context! *Who is this? Where did you go?*
Super easy way to include yourself into the conversation. I think when I
realised this a few years ago it made my group interactions go 10x
better. Genuinely---such a huge difference. And I hardly ever see it
recommended. Yes, it would be better if people shared the info directly,
without being asked, but most people don't have great social skills, or
they don't want to gloat, or it doesn't feel important to them. In any
case, asking for context stops you from looking like a lemon, and shows
that you care. Just don't overdo it, and try and have something to
contribute when you do do it.

Living so far from friends has been good for forcing me to socialise. I
do have friends here now, but occasionally I'll go out on my ones and
meet new people. I'm very curious and looking forward to see how this
adapts back in Exeter where everyone has established friends, and the
bars are typically less social. Foreigners over here all have a story of
how they ended up in Japan, where they are from, and are out looking to
meet new people---which makes it very easy to strike up a conversation.
I find that socialising, while enjoyable, definitely takes energy rather
than adding to it, though.

As a kid I was decently shy in new groups, and I didn't even have the
emotional intelligence/self-awareness to clock it. I didn't know it but
when I was playing football for district, I was extremely anxious and
reserved. I rationalised it as not liking the people very much. I mean,
I still don't think they were great people or my type of people, but
looking back, if I were in my shoes---or football boots---I'd be much
more sociable and friendly than I was. I suppose it\'s because I've
overcome childhood insecurities (through luck, changing scenarios, and
outgrowing certain things I guess), and now have a pretty strong sense
of self and what I value.

Secondary school social dynamics are a bit of a cesspit. I think I
really struggled with the social hierarchy aspect, and while I was well
liked and known, I didn't really feel a sense of belonging. I think
leaving secondary school helped a lot. If I were to go back I just
wouldn't really care. I think there were kids back then too that didn't
really care. I guess a lot of my childhood insecurities came from being
the youngest in a big family and wanting to be accepted, so as I've
become an adult, a lot of that has dissipated. Which is nice!

I recently had a thought on acceptance that may or not be interesting,
but it was also how I felt as a child. I was never a people pleaser, and
that's because *you* aren't being accepted if you are entirely changing
your behaviour. At that point it\'s not you, man!!!

To go a layer deeper, this made me think of how people define themselves
and their identity, as in do you exist from the observations of others
or yourself? I've always been the latter, and I think that's definitely
the healthier route. This did have funny effects as a young child
though, I very much used to see the world through my own lens.

My teachers used to think I was deaf because I would rarely listen---not
in a trouble-making way though. I would, for example, continue drawing
when the teacher said it\'s time to sit down. I remember thinking very
logically as a child about going to school/preschool. My mum explained
to me that the goal of being at school was to learn, and I wanted to
learn. Therefore, I would do the things that would maximise learning so
if we were drawing, and the teacher wanted to sit us down to say
goodbye, I wouldn't listen. A better use of my time was to draw. I think
this self centred approach to life wore off by the time I was about 6 or
7, but sometimes I wonder if this is what helped make me a bit more
intelligent at a younger age in some way. It's also probably why my
social skills developed a bit later haha. I also didn't speak much as a
little kid, and spent most of my early years observing those around me
which probably made me mature faster.

Now though, my emotional-cortex has developed, and I do pretty well in
that department (I think)! I have a pretty positive view of myself; in
fact, I think I'm better than average, and as such, I should have kids.

It's wild how your offspring is just a random selection of you and your
partner\'s DNA. Imagine it selects the worst parts of you both. That'd
be pretty crazy...
