## Thoughts on Identity
*27/12/23*

I was on a walk and recently thought about how kids can be rude. 
I feel like this 'rudeness' can often result from
a lack of empathy and understanding of other people\'s identities - or
rather, people get offended when someone critiques (or is negative
toward) something that is tied to the offendee's identity. To give an
example, John says "I like this song" and Tim says "That song sucks".
Aside from being generally negative, it's possible John's taste in
music, or John's taste full-stop, is a part of his identity, so by
critiquing the song, from John's perspective, Tim is critiquing John. I
think the offence taken is proportional to the distance of the concept
to the identity. I.e, if that was John's wedding song, he'd be MORE
offended, even though he knows taste is subjective.

That's so hard to explain to a child, because it doesn't make loads of
sense, and yet I do think they feel insulted when you insult parts of
their identity (lol). So 'how would you explain identity to a child?'
Maybe 'Identity is the core parts of how you see yourself, and the
world. If something critiques something and it offends you deeply, then
it\'s probably a part of your identity' is a good place to start.

The side effect of this is that if something isn\'t frequently
criticised/under attack, it can be difficult to recognise internally why
you felt SO emotionally unprepared to deal with something. Looking at
how the subject matter relates to how you see yourself/see the
world/want to be seen (ie your identity), is a worthwhile area to
explore if you don't understand your emotions. Also similarly if you
don't understand the reactions of other people.

Related to this, a driver of what qualifies a part of your identity is
how often the subject is brought up. To me, being a white isn't a
particularly important part of my identity - largely because there's no
reason to think about it much, but coming to Japan I definitely do
recognise it a bit more. Also the community and reinforcement of others
around given subject matter is a huge player. I have guy-friends and we
do guy-stuff, and that reinforces the guy-part of my identity.

Sometimes people feel very performative with their support of queer
people. I think of all the times people close to me (who openly say they
support these groups) have nudged, made eyes at, or giggled when seeing
trans people, or trying to guess someone\'s gender, or start talking
about their genitals? Don't these people have it hard enough? Just for
some quick laugh. It's shit like that that perpetuates my inner shame
and its not necessarily vicious but I think it's pretty fucked up. Same
thing happens to disabled people. Like whispering about them or pointing
them out. I think it's really unempathetic and it actually upsets me
quite a lot. It feels very hypocritical, and in a group setting there
will be at least one person that does this.

Anyway, I actually think intellectually they (the people making
comments) are actually not that dissimilar to me - as in, they KNOW
there is nothing wrong with it, it's just they haven't internalised
that, and that comes out in ugly ways. The societal influence is super
strong, and they are victims of it just like I am... Although they add
to it more than I do lol. Maybe if I was more open and vocal about my
sexuality this would happen less to others? And would undo some of the
societal influence? For all these people apparently care about equal
rights, how would they *feel* if their child came out as trans, or gay,
or had cerebral palsy even?

Homophobia and sexism is genuinely everywhere, and it\'s so normalised
that it often slips by even when it\'s explicit (as in obvious, not full
of swears). If you aren't on the receiving end, it\'s easy to ignore and
I say this as someone who didn't used to consider themselves as 'on the
receiving end'. But yeah, it's no wonder marginalised people have their
own groups and communities, which, in turn, ends up making certain parts
of their identity more important to them (i.e. being gay). There is
probably lots more I could say on this, but I'll move on now.

You know when people weaponise their identity by saying you are X so you
can't talk about Y? I think that\'s silly. Doing that is harmful because
you want to convince group X, and you are blocking out X people that
agree with you. Also Y people can have shit opinions too. Everyone is
entitled to the discussion I think. Safe spaces have value too and
should exist, just not everywhere (which is essentially what you are
doing when you say X people shouldn't talk about Y).

Last thought, in a vacuum, at least conceptually, race/gender/sexuality
are pretty superficial parts of identity, and it's kind of funny how
they've ballooned into this whole thing. Intellectually speaking, they
aren't very important to my identity, and I'd argue everyone feels that
way. We shouldn't really divide on those lines. There was this (silly)
quote I heard: "I want to live in a world where everyone could say every
slur". Not being Ricky Gervais, the point is that this would only be
possible if the slurs no longer cause great offence (meaning a world so
far removed from the associated injustices).
