## Veganism
*26/05/24*

I'm very kind to insects and I can't remember the last time I killed one
on purpose. I'll go out of my way to help them out of places they
shouldn't be, and it makes me upset when people kill them. At the same
time, I still (at time of writing) eat meat.

I was trying to figure out why this is really, or if I really care about
animals, or if there\'s something special about insects. Maybe I pity
them? After visiting a farm (the farm) in Bristol and seeing the
animals, I realised I feel the same way toward them as I do to insects.
So I came to the conclusion that if I had regular exposure to farm
animals, I wouldn't want to eat them.

Animals blow my mind. Their presence is genuinely one of the coolest
things in the universe. Life is so genuinely beautiful. From a
physics/materialist perspective, we all came from this soup, and now
animals have these complex mechanisms from microscopic ones to entire
social systems. It's so complex. Did you know when dogs poop they align
themselves along the Earth's magnetic field?

The more fun facts I learn the more my mind gets blown.

I often wonder what percentage of my experience aligns with that of a
dog, ant, chimpanzee, or another human for that matter. Surely there's
some overlap. If I were given a concrete percentage, would that change
my actions?

The thought of someone killing a bug unnecessarily kind of gives me the
same vibe as littering. Why do it? I think the uncertainty of how
sentient they are plays a part in it for me.

People often appeal to strange arguments when being anti-vegan. A lot of
the time people use an argument of 'intelligence' which is silly because
it\'s not okay to eat / enslave humans if they are stupid. There's
something deeper going on. Another is 'Oh these animals wouldn't exist
otherwise', okay so... does that make breeding humans for slavery okay?

I do get a sense that generally people are VERY defensive when
confronted internally with eating meat. I do feel like there\'s some
kind of mass gaslighting around your typical vegan, because the typical
person who complains about vegans seems way more aggressive, triggered,
and sensitive than the vegan does. Maybe I've just been lucky, but all
the vegans I've met have been very chill.

It comes down to them simply not valuing the life of the animal, which
is a fundamental difference to overcome. I think I do value the life of
the animal so I'm living where my actions don't line up with my beliefs.
Which isn't great.

Actually, I don't think I've ever heard a convincing case for
meat-eating.

Slavery was socially normalised and was socially acceptable for
thousands of years. Enslaving someone is probably just as bad if not
worse than killing someone. Slavery was socially acceptable, and had its
own rationalisations, while murder was not.

I do think we will see a similar shift with meat-eating as we did with
slavery.

So yeah, I've been flirting with veganism for some time. I've watched a
few documentaries, and it's the clear environmental choice. I think
there is an underlying sympathy I have for animals though. Maybe it\'s
because I grew up as the youngest in my family and so I empathise with
their stupidity and powerlessness.

**What have I actually done for animals?**

Not much at all. I try to buy the expensive free range eggs (also if you
do this, get the more expensive ones, the mid-range free-range eggs\'
cost-to-ethicality ratio is actually not great. There's different
thresholds to free-rangeness. I don't remember exactly, but there's
certain criteria they have to meet and one of the thresholds it\'s just
'as long as they touch grass sometimes'. Which obviously doesn't mean
much.) I also occasionally buy vegan products in supermarkets to 'vote
with my pound'. I want to see a more vegan future for sure.

I mean like I said before, I take care of the bugs I see and if it\'s a
hot day I will bring them some water.

**Why haven't I done much?**

I used to say I'd go veggie once I went to uni. I went to uni, and
realised meat is very cheap and easy to cook. I'd 100% vote for any
policy that improved animal rights, and on a governmental level, I think
we should tax meat and subsidise vegan food the same way we subsidise
the meat industry now. I think we are so far away from that with the
current cost of living issues. It would hurt poor families the most. And
it is (if only because of education) harder to have a balanced diet
without meat.

So yeah, meat is easy, cheap, tasty, and filling. Just a shame something
has to die for it. Lab grown meat would be very cool.

It's so normalised, is absolutely everywhere, and as individuals we are
so distanced from the quite frankly horrible farming practices.

**Final thoughts**

I think I will be disappointed in myself if I'm still eating meat in 10
years time. That's funny actually, we normally are disappointed in our
past selves, not future selves. When I'm old I do want to be the cool
grandad that was ahead of the curve.

It's so hard to break social conditioning though. I don't emotionally
feel uncomfortable eating meat, it\'s an intellectual dispute. I'm
trying to find ways to trigger the emotions that will make me stop
eating meat. I've tried docs but they don't quite do it. Maybe I should
work on a farm and try to eat a lamb I raised or something. Maybe that
will get me. Maybe I should watch horrible videos before deciding to buy
meat or not (but then I'm worried I will get desensitised to the
violence and I don't want that).

I just don't feel emotionally convicted enough to act. The thought that
I've never heard a convincing case for meat-eating (that applies to me),
is quite a big realisation though.

I am curious if other people think about this kinda thing.
